to_pass(1) -- transform a string to a password
==============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`to_pass` [-a ALG | --algorithm ALG] [--pipe | --no-pipe] string<br>
`to_pass` [-a ALG | --algorithm ALG] [--pipe | --no-pipe] &lt; FILE<br>
`to_pass` [-A|--algorithms]<br>
`to_pass` [-C|--converters]

`password_of` is an alias of `to_pass`

## DESCRIPTION

**to_pass** converts a string (be it a word, a sentence or a whole book) into a
password. The transformation is done according to a algorithm which basically is
a list of conversion steps.

Some algorithms and conversions are supplied, but you can easily add your own.
User supplied algorithms are searched in `~/.to_pass/algorithms/`, converter
classes are searched in `~/.to_pass/converters/`.

to_pass-algorithm(5) files are written in yaml(3pm), to_pass-converter(5) classes are
ruby(1) classes.

## FILES

The `to_pass` command can read both algorithms and converters.

Algorithm names should match the filenames so that the library can find and
load them.  Search locations are the user-directory ~/.to_pass/algorithm/ and
the bundled algorithms. The file is expected to have a ".yml"-extension.
Details can be found in to_pass-algorithm(5).

Converters should be named like the method they provide. Details about the
expected class can be found in to_pass-converter(5).


## OPTIONS

The following options are supported:

  * `-a ALGORITHM`, `--algorithm ALGORITHM`:
    Use the named algorithm.

  * `--pipe`:
    Output just the resulting string, without a line-ending.


### ACTIONS

Further, the following switches trigger an action other than converting a
string to a password

  * `-A`, `--algorithms`:
    list all available algorithms

  * `-C`, `--converters`:
    list all converters which can be used for algorithms

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    show usage information


## EXAMPLES

Transform the word "test" into a password:

    $ to_pass test
    t35t

Transform a phrase into a password using a different algorithm:

    $ password_of "there is one problem with this sentence: its too long to type into a password field" -a basic_en
    ti1pwtsi2ltti@pf

## BUGS

So far, no bugs are known. If you encounter any, please file a bugreport under
https://github.com/kronn/to_pass/issues

## COPYRIGHT

ToPass is Copyright (C) 2010 Matthias Viehweger. It is open sourced under a MIT-license.

## SEE ALSO

to_pass-converter(5), to_pass-algorithm(5)
